This directory contains the classic "hello world" example application
for MANTIS.

You can use this application to verify that your MANTIS environment is
set up correctly.  It is recommended that you follow the instructions
located at
http://mantis.cs.colorado.edu/index.php/tiki-index.php?page=Tutorials
to set up your environment in either Linux or Windows/cygwin first.


The example application prints via the serial line to the terminal, as
well as receiving packets over the radio and displays them to the
terminal. 

To install it, follow these steps:

====== MICA2/MICAZ =====
The mica nodes require that the MANTIS bootloader be installed first:

    > ../scripts/set_mos

The node can now be programmed using the mos_shell application, which
is distributed with the mantis toolchain, and should be in your $PATH
if you correctly followed the setup instructions on the website. The
mos_shell application for linux is also included in this directory in
case you are just previewing the system and do not want to setup the
toolchain yet.

   > mos_shell -p mica2/hello_world.srec --sdev /dev/ttyS0 (or)
   > mos_shell -p micaz/hello_world.srec --sdev /dev/ttyS0

You will need to reset the node in order for the programming to begin.
(if your programming board is attached to a different serial port,
substitute that for /dev/ttyS0).

===== TELOSB =====
The telos nodes are programmed with bsl.py, the Boot Strap Loader.
This file should be in your $PATH if you correctly followed the setup
instructions on the website.  It is also included in this directory in
case you are just previewing the system and do not want to setup the
toolchain yet.

  > ./telosb/bsl.py --telosb -e -c /dev/ttyUSB0 -p telosb/hello_world.elf

Reset the node; output can be viewed with the mos_shell application:
  > mos_shell --sdev /dev/ttyUSB0 -n

NOTE:  To program the nodes under cygwin, you will need to install the
Virtual COM Port Driver; this assigns the USB device a windows COM
number, allowing you to program the USB device using /dev/ttySx, where
x is the windows COM port number minus one. (e.g., COM8 ->
/dev/ttyS7). The VCP Driver is available from
http://www.ftdichip.com/Drivers/VCP.htm.


This brief hello world application is not a complete guide; for more
information, please see our website:

* http://mantis.cs.colorado.edu
* http://mantis.cs.colorado.edu/index.php/tiki-index.php?page=Tutorials
* http://mantis.cs.colorado.edu/index.php/tiki-index.php?page=Documentation
